Tradition (or an absence of one)

Reconceiving hermeneutical experience as an interplay between tradition and interpretation, Hans-Georg Gadamer writes, "The [hermeneutic] circle...is not formal in nature, it is neither subjective nor objective, but describes understanding as the interplay of the movement of tradition and the movement of the interpreter. The anticipation of meaning that governs our understanding of a text is not an act of subjectivity, but proceeds from the commonality that binds us to tradition. But this is condtained in our relation to tradition, in the constant process of education. Tradition is not simply a precondition into which we come, but we produce it ourselves, inasmuch as we understand, participate in the evolution of tradition and hence further determine it ourselves." (Truth and Method, 261). Gadamer effortlessly connects an understanding of a text with an immersion in a tradition which is related to the constant process of educating oneself. This connection between tradition and education is hardly straightforward, neither is it easy to accept when one remembers the project of overhauling the university system in Colonial India, a project initiated by the British administration for different political ends. As far as the academy is concerned, our inability to clearly state what we mean by intellectual history <pollock on intellectual history>, or our inability to clearly identify an intellectual tradition to which we belong <cite Kapila Devji>, especially one which cuts aorss the modern and early modern divide, is a political end of the British instated education that we continue to be burdened by. This is particularly acute in the emergence of political economy as a discipline in our universities. As a backward gaze from the contemporary into the colonial era, I ask, what do we mean by tradition in the study of political economy in Colonial India? To echo Gadamer without being able to give an ontological basis for tradition, I ask, how are we producing and interpreting the evolution of a tradition (or an absence of one) when we practice political economy?





 
The word tradition could refer to a lineage of thinkers or authors, tradition also has a sense of persistence, a historical copresence, attached to it, a continuity; in what way is a tradition historical? In some way it is related to the sense of a classic, as "Marx" would be, but Marx is not classic, but has a very really politial potential even today; even if these thinkers or genealogy of thinkers are able to be contemporaneous; an author as a system allows us to congigure our present, we can use their language to articulate our current questions. But can all thinkers so easily be used?

  words like Samskriti would suggest a culture, and this context a culture of thought. In the absence of such a culture of thought, I would have to relying on social history and then link words or concepts that seem to come together, along with social history (Koselleck).
When it comes to Poltical Economy, what would be an apporpriate translation in Hindi, or Urdu, or Malayalam, or Marathi? One of Iqbal's earliest books was a translation of Political Economy.

By tradition I mean intellectual tradition. In this note I would like to think through the valency of tradition as a term which suggests a lineage of authors who have contributed to the formation of Political Economy as a system of thought. Political Economy can be thought of as a discipline, How such such a sense of tradition cohere for a student who would like to study the political economy of Colonial India?

thought, or author , or an intellectual lineage, has for a student of the political economy in Colonial India. To give more definition to this endeavour, by valency of tradition I mean to inquiry into the conditions that will allow me to think what was the intellectual tradition.   "History", "Political Economy" and "Colonial India" have to be defined.

When I think about the meaning of tradition could mean for me as a student of political economy,

Tradition in Gadamer: an immersion in history rather than author-centric, relevance of the author to Gadamer? An author might be relevant to gadamer when he thinks of what is a classic: here there is a shift from author to text or canon perhaps [commentary? ask Naor what he was citing when he mentioned canon as a ooncept] Its more for Foucault. Author-centered traditions? or text centered? or strcuture centered? focualt can be synthesized with gadamer as long as we keep reading at the fore. But there is a dependence on author-function for Foucault, and on the text for gadamer, however gadamer also thinks of strucutre.

Author-Function in Political Economy in Foucault: Is Political Economy author centered? When does a discursive field become author centered? Why are the humanities still author centred?
The question of Authorship and Political Economy as a discurive field in Foucault: how would Foucalt think of the colonial epsiteme, and how do we submit Foucault to the colonial question
As a student, when I turn to the 19th century in Colonial India I hardly have an author from the period to whom I can turn to for reflections on the increased circulation of money, the real effects of stock markets surges, or say the rapid increase in industrial capital formaiton especially towards the end of the century. There seems to be an absence of an author who has the gravity of a Marx, or an Adam Smith, or a Ricardo who reflected on these transformations. Perhaps I am suggesting that there is an absence of a field called political economy. Though the term political economy is anachromistic, the search for a "native" moniker which represents reflections on the economic conidtions that were reconfiguring the experience of time, space, and the changing terms of how people associated with eahc other a question I would like to. Associated with all monikers there should be a discursive field. As Foucault. <a move away from author centered political economy, but is political economy author centered?>

The Return of Strcuture and the question of transformations in Political Economy: Structure in Sewell, Barthes, Althusser


The are other prefixes to economy such as market economy, and agrarian economy to suggest some difference from political economy.
Beginnings in Althusser and Said