
=================================
April 17th 2017
==================================

Tea grown in South India is a popular variety---once termed English breakfast tea. Rather than a luxury, it is consumed by the masses and was initially exported only to satisfy what Robert Brenner calls a substantial British “home-market” which was supported by a well established working class by the end of the 18th century. Towards the last quarter of the 19th century the market for tea further expanded, and it was exported to the U.S. and other regions. During this short period a whole host of colonial political instruments and actors irrevocably changed the social and ecological fabric of the Western Ghats. This mountainscape in South India saw a rapid increase in the land that was “fenced” for cultivation. What began as experiments in "gardening" eventually became full blown plantations. From the early 19th century onwards---coffee, cinchona, tea, and rubber---were grown in alternating and varied planting cycles. This process of establishing plantations, or enclosures of land, has its origins in 16th century England. However, when it arrived as a form which travelled into South India as a colonial enterprise, it changed the semantic and ecological topography of the region. Rather than tea cultivation as a production process alone, I am interested in how the circulation of tea was a part of the region-formation process of the Western Ghats. What were the long term historical conditions---legal, political, and geographical---that allowed the form of the plantation to establish itself on the ranges of the Western Ghats in a manner that transformed the ecological and human life of that region? At the level of method, how do we write a history of the Western Ghats as a continuous, processual formation which oscillates between deterritorialization and reterritorialization from the constant reproduction of the plantation as its form of life? 


Settlement I - Movement, Possession of Nature, and Human Meanings 
Brenner
Linebaugh and Rediker
Seed

Settlement II - Region Formation
Goswami
Benton 
Subramanian
Percival
Raman
Baak
James Scott

Circular Movements, Cheap Food, and Cheap Labor: The Case of Tea in Global Market
Moore
Mintz
Appadura
Mohan
Besky
Mateer

Settlement I - Movement, Possession of Nature, and Human Meanings 

1.) Brenner, Robert. 1985. "The Agrarian Roots of European Capitalism." In Aston, Trevor Henry et al. eds. The Brenner debate agrarian class structure and economic development in pre-industrial Europe. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.
In this essay social-property-systems are given the utmost agency in explaining the economic evolution of class formations as a transition from  medieval to early modern England and France. Of particular interest is the onset of the Industrial Revolution in England; by the middle of 17th century and towards the turn of the 18th Brenner suggests that there existed a substantial middle, and lower class "home-market" in England. Population continued to grow in England in the 18th century; "population continued to shift from agriculture to industry and from rural towards the urban areas, as there was a big growth not only of London, but also of Liverpool, Manchester, and Birmingham. Even so, grain prices ceased to rise. This allowed real wages to increase, and a new golden age for working people...the home market continued to grow...an upward spiral that extended into the Industrial Revolution" (327).

3.) Linebaugh, Peter, and Rediker, Marcus. 2000. The Many Headed Hydra: Sailors, Slaves, Commoners, and the Hidden History of the Revolutionary Atlantic. Boston: Beacon Press. 
"Labors of expropriation included the clear-cutting of woods, the draining of marshes, the reclamation of fens, and the hedging of the arable field---in sum, the obliteration of the commoning habitus. Woodlands contained flourishing economies of forest people in England … their destruction was the first step toward agrarian "civilization” … [The] Act for the Limitation of Forests [commissioned in 1640] … was the signal for the beginning of widespread destruction of forests." In the year 1649 the Parliamentary Committee for the Preservation of Timber was formed to check the depredations of the "looser and disordered sort of people" who continued to insist upon their common rights in the forests" (43). Linebaugh and Rediker powerfully explicate the question of the commons. Their narrative is a prelude to colonial settlers possessing land in America, and reproducing hierarchies and legal norms that were understood only in England, but had to be translated elsewhere.
As sailors, and commoners traveled across the Atlantic, though theirs is a story of revolutionary consciousness, their movement can be read as a transformation of the commons, not just into revolutionaries, but also as labor connected to elsewhere, as in the movement into New York. 
A question that arises here is, how do we write a history which is at once a critique of ecological and human displacement, which at once pays close heed to the transformation of nature, as well as human habitation. Is there a genealogical way of writing a history of the commons by looking at finished commodities, but tracing backward from today the histories of displacement that were simultaneously being created as we move through cycles of production and consumption (as in the case of agriculture in 17th century Europe and displacement of the commons)? It is not enough that we write histories of production and consumption, but rather the displacements that undergird such cycles as well. (A parallel situation of the commons is observed in the 19th century in the forests of South West India where animal, plant and human life are displaced, however they are not described as the commons, or possessing common rights.)

3.) Seed, Patricia. 1995. Ceremonies of Possession in Europe's Conquest of the New World 1492-1640. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
"Affixing the symbols of individual ownership by planting fences and hedges was referred to by [British] colonists as "improvements." While in popular speech today improvement merely means to make something better, the word first signified fencing in large tracts of previously unenclosed land … The fence symbolized English ownership in a culturally powerful way … In the 17th and 18th centuries improvement also referred to two activities repeatedly carried out on the same land: grazing (domestic animals) and planting" (25)."Thus, when the English referred to their colonies in the New World as plantations, they were referring to themselves metaphorically as taking possession … It was a principle of natural law that "in vacant soyle, hee that taketh possession of it, and bestoweth culture and husbandry upon it, his Right it is [John Cotton, 1630] … Planting the garden was an act of taking possession of the New World for England. It was not a law that entitled Englishmen to possess the New World, it was an action which established their rights" (29-31). Planting became an act that was to be understood by all as the beginning of settlement. Such an act was a cultural construct (38). Such a culturally loaded act could only be understood by the English legal code.
How did the above understanding of planting influence 19th century legal politics of claims on land, especially with the EIC and then the British-India government? To understand this question we would have to unpack how a colonial state space was  created through Paramountcy, or indirect rule. Such a discourse takes us away from the commons and into the translation of planting as a rights bestowing human act. This understanding of planting, implicit for British planters, came into conflict with the views of the secretary (or dewan) of the princely state of Travancore. 

Settlement II - Region Formation

4.) Benton, Lauren. 2010. A Search for Sovereignty: Law and Geography in European Empires 1400-1900. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
"Quasi sovereign states [such as those under paramountcy, as in the case of Travancore in South West Colonial India] came to be  imagined everywhere [within the British Empire in the 19th century] as anomalous legal spaces, where the application of imperial law defied easy categorization and seemed even to require the occasional suspension of law" (227)."The same Foreign Office officials who prided themselves on systematizing legal relations between the native states also developed and refined the notion that paramountcy resided mainly in the prerogative of the imperial power to decide where law ended and politics began. More precisely, the colonial state claimed the power not to decide -- to remain silent on questions that were "beyond the power of language" (260). When it came to bringing hill regions within legal purview (as in the case of land acquired to cultivate tea in Travancore) an extra-legal process whereby "holes and silences" in the legal system were created which came to define what was called  a "territorial enclave" (270). This legal term was at once a geographic marker and a sign which meant that standard legal parameters of governance do not apply. As Benton shows, "territorial enclave" was often used to demarcate a region that was hilly, and at the same time anomalous in that it created "holes" and "silences" within the legal system through is "legal primitiveness." This was the case especially since such regions did not conform to British legal ideas of autonomy and legitimacy. In dealing with the Bhils, a hill tribe that lived on the border of Baroda (princely state) and Kandesh (a British district), it was suggested that "the introduction of laws and regulations seems likely to lead to … difficulty. The British Government of India [was] disposed to think that , for a backward community like the … Bhils, the strongest and most effective form of control is the personal rule of a British officer untrammeled by anything but executive orders from his own Government" (Benton citing a colonial legal manual, 264).

5.) Manu Goswami. 2004. Producing India: From Colonial Economy to National Space. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. 
"The mercantilist regime of the East India Company was grounded on the extraction of tribute … In contrast, the post 1857 colonial regime hinged on "occupying space, producing space"...a new colonial state form" (45). "The self-understanding of the colonial state as the supreme landlord, continually reiterated within official discourse, coexisted with the intensified commodification of space, the extension of the regime of private property, and a phenomenal increase in rural indebtedness in the first half of the nineteenth century … [The colonial state's appropriation of an ultimate right of ownership of land] was rendered socially effective in the enduring practice of "hypothecation," whereby the state reserved a supreme claim to land by selling land deeds at public auction in the event of a failure to pay the cash revenues on time" (55). "In a process that mirrored the acquisition of land for railway construction, a simple gazette notification stating that forest and wastelands were reserved as "state forests" effectively erased all [local] customary rights. Because claims on forest and wastelands had to be grounded in legal records of ownership, the vast majority of nonliterate subaltern communities were simply disposed of their lands" (58). This last line assumes that state-ownership of forest land was an assumed mandate. This situation is negotiated in a different way in the case of princely states. I can understand the above being the case for a Presidency as in the case of Bombay, Madras, or Bengal where there was direct British rule. However in the case of a smaller princely state Lauren Benton suggests the possibility for “voids” and “silences” within the colonial state space. 

7.) Subramanian, Ajantha. 2009. Shorelines: Space and Rights in South India. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
"[After the revolt of 1857,] the new policy [of Direct Crown rule and noninterference in religious matters of the princely states]" upheld the sovereignty of these states, "as a necessary buffer against the rising tide of rebellion against empire. It underwrote the territorial sovereignty of the princes in exchange for their loyalty" (76). Within a decade of this move the colonial state compelled the princes "to assume more responsibility to their subjects and demonstrate their achievements" through "good governance" (77). This however meant large scale economic development. But the curious fact of the matter is that economic development was always articulated by the British government in the idiom of a moral improvement. "Through the large scale investment of private foreign capital in coffee, tea, and rubber plantations and in coir and coconut oil agro-processing industries in Travancore was gradually integrated into an international commodity market dominated by European capital. European firms predominated, exerting near total control over commercial and financial activity. By the late nineteenth century the Travancore economy was "an essentially export oriented agro-based industrial complex characterized by the overall predominance of foreign capital … In 1865, the Travancore Dewan … granted full ownership rights to peasant cultivators of … government lands. He also allowed the unrestricted transfer of landed property, soon followed by reforms ensuring tenants of private land, legal protection and permanent occupancy rights. The commodification of land..."

6.) Scott, James C. 1998. Seeing like a state: how certain schemes to improve the human condition have failed. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Scott pushes the boundary of the question of “voids” and “silences” within the production of state-space by asking us to confront the possibility of a space that is outside the state. He does this in the negative by focussing on the failure of intensification projects that are supported by different national governments. Scott asks us,“How does the state get a handle on society?” His concern with “the logic behind large-scale attempts to redesign rural life and production from above” speaks directly to the possession of land for tea cultivation on the Western Ghats. Scott reads “the civilizing process” by which “royal [crown] or the seat of state” brings large forest regions, marshes, and so-called wastelands under its interest as an attempt at “domestication, a kind of social gardening devised to make the countryside, its products, and its inhabitants more readily identifiable and accessible to the center” as an effort at “domestication, a social gardening” (184). The metaphor of social gardening resonates with the idea of possessing rights over land by enclosing it. Enclosure here is achieved through large scale projects that adversely affect soil, and water table condition; this stress on ecological shocks such as a widespread onslaught of pests on crop fields suggests that nature comes to have a certain say, or agency if you will. Nature can be a negative space bound and interacting with the production of a colonial-state-space.  

11.) Baak, Paul Erik. 17. Plantation, Production and Political Power: Plantation Development in South West India 1743-1963. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
Paramountcy, or indirect rule, allowed the British-India government to stay clear of labour debates in England-- this created a normative bubble of sorts where colonial expansion of permanent settlement could be carried out without much external checks. There are two sections which speak directly to me,  one on the development of the Planter’s Raj, and the other on the rise of mid-level Syrian Christian managers who worked on colonial plantations-- the latter eventually become land holders. By Planter’s Raj, Baak alludes to the functioning of the princely state as an organ of uninhibited plantation development. This period from 1850 to 1900 is a time when large tracts of hills are acquired by foreign planters by floating joint stock companies on the London stock exchange. Baak describes the political conditions under which "jungle-land" was usurped on a large scale through a negotiation between the British Resident, the secretary of the princely state, and the planters themselves.  

14.) Griffiths, Percival. 1967. The History of the Indian Tea Industry. London: Weidenfeld and Nicholson.
Griffiths was a British Indian Civil Servant who spent a life working for British interests in the tea industry. From the perspective of the tea industry organizations, as well as the colonial state, Griffiths gives detailed account of tea propaganda that was under discussion in the 1880s when a consortium of tea planters were trying to re-established tea as a popular drink in America. Such a propaganda parallels the intensification of tea production; Percival describes this period as "Tea Mania.” If we place our gaze on the operation of the tea companies it becomes easier to think about different scales of operation, wherein we can have a global scale at the level of world market, this happens only once tea auctioneering and hence tea price is consolidated at the global level. Likewise, tea companies were also operating at the regional level when they had to negotiate with the dewan of a princely state, who was basically the intermediary between the Travancore King and the British officials. At the local level tea companies had to deal with the question of land and labor, where land problems could be anywhere between acquiring more space, or negotiating taxation. However this method would focus far too much on the operations of the tea companies: land and labor would only function to establish the prerogatives of the tea industry. What would be far more fulfilling is if land and labor can be instilled with enough agency to form a critique from the perspective of the dispossessed, or the commons, as Linebaugh and Rediker describe it. Focussing on caste-slavery with missionary linkages could solve some of this problem, however land again would be left impotent. I say impotent because I am aware that when the communist government comes into power in Kerala in 1956, one of its rallying cries which allowed it to come to power was "land to the tiller." Though large-scale land reform was implemented, I believe plantation acreage remained unchanged-- hence, land as a political agenda is impotent, or fails, as far as the presence of tea-plantations are concerned. In other words, land is hardly potent against the presence of the tea plantations. Instead, another way to re-open the land question could be to focus on ecology-- pest control. This is from the fact that when large acres of land is cultivated with the same crop, it becomes more susceptible to swarms of pest (Scott). Another problem that tea companies would have faced as markets expanded was the maintenance of quality of product. This is where technological and chemical dependence comes into play. I have to put more thought in how to tackle the problem of pest and quality control.  So far we have been on the production side of settlement, region-formation, and the commodity chain, now I would like to move to the consumption side to explicate the erasure of the histories of the conditions of production. 

Circular Movements, Cheap Food, Cheap Labor: The Case of Tea in Global Market

10.) Mintz, Sidney W. 1985. Sweetness and power: the place of sugar in modern history. New York, N.Y.: Viking.
"the strange intimacies of preference formation": that imaginary space for Sidney Mintz which connects the histories of production to the histories of what becomes available for consumption; Mintz when sitting at his desk on a village high above sugarcane fields sees the connection between the table sugar beside him, and the sugarcanes that are being heaped for processing. He suggests the presence of historical intimacies that form our preferences-- however this intimacy I believe is evoked through Mintz’s spatial proximity to the sugarcane field. He rightly asserts the absence of this intimacy when sugarcane travels, and is transformed into sugar, a sense of erasure prevails when sugar is consumed at a distance in another space and time.  Mintz also touches on the question of commodity use and meaning, where repetition instills meaning. In what way does the use of mass commodities such as sugar and tea erase a history of slavery and displacement of nature?

9.) Appadurai, Arjun. "Introduction: commodities and the politics of value." In The Social Life of Things.
"Commodities represent very complex social forms and distribution of knowledge" (41). Very broadly, these can be classified as production knowledge on the one hand, and consumption knowledge on the other. In the case of tea production, bringing large areas of land under cultivation required technical expertise, hence production knowledge. When tea is shipped to London for auctioneering, speculators have a different set of rules and information based on which they operate, hence consumption knowledge. Knowledge at both these poles are influenced by a distance in time, space, and institution. "As commodities travel greater distances [and across institutions] ... knowledge about them tends to become partial, contradictory, and differentiated. But such differentiation [and contradiction] may itself … lead to the intensification of demand" (56).The key terms here for the circulation of tea and its value-transformation is institution. I am more interested a long history of how the value-transformation of commodities (tea) influences the use of land, and the meaning of land very broadly put. [Mintz invokes the connection between "use" of a commodity, and its "meaning" as a semiotic frame for consumption.] The "moral economy" of tea production forces me to think about the extra-economic relationship to land (externalities from nature?). I have tea intensification on the one hand, and on the other, the commodification of land-- can both be thought of as different institutions? Tea intensification can be thought of as linked to “Tea Propaganda” and the development of a global market, while land commodification can be understood as a function of state-space. However, land as an ecological space has to be accounted for. I continue to think through space and its value-transformations under a colonial-state-space. Institutions create transformations and value-differentiations. The intensification of tea cultivation, and its relationship to the value-transformation of land has to be thought of as a historical process which began in the early 19th century, but has precedences in 16th and 17th century human settlements described above. Of course, such historical difference has to be accounted for-- namely colonialism. 

12.) Mohan, P. Sanal. 2015. Modernity of Slavery: Struggles against Caste Inequality in Colonial Kerala. New Delhi: Oxford University Press. 
"In precolonial Travancore, land was held as the possession of the state as well as the property of big landlord families and temples. With the Pandarappattom proclamation of 1865, there emerged a middle-stratum peasantry that was drawn mainly from upper castes, including a substantial number of Ezhavas … This new proclamation bestowed ownership rights on the tenants that were qualified as 'heritable saleable and otherwise transferable, subject only to the obligation of paying the land tax assessed to them' … The ownership of land was, in the process, diffused among all castes and groups connected with agriculture … But these changes were to have only marginal effect on the untouchable slave castes of Travancore … The slave castes, particularly the Pulayas, Parayas, and Kuravas, were reduced to agrestic slavery that had a long history in Travancore" (17).  Lower castes in Travancore become landless as land is politically and legally ascribed as private property and tradeable. Thus, the caste question enters, and is transformed by the invention of private property as caste slavery. The landless caste slave is crucial here. In short, Mohan asserts that capitalist production did not really create new social relationships, but gave the older caste structure a new mold-- that of slavery. If caste slavery persisted despite a transition toward capitalist production, how does wage-labor become an effective political sign to mobilize under? I ask because if we think of a developing public sphere in Travancore during the late 19th and early 20th century, several communities were forming public identities by organizing themselves into different political associations or sabhas as they were called. More than labor, public identities were being created through religious and caste affiliations (Baak). However, more than labor, such public affiliations and identities, as with the Syrian Christians, were able to consolidate land-holdings and even develop themselves as planters while the caste-slaves hung on the margins of labor employed by the public works department and plantations (Baak, 22).   
"The colonial transformation of slave castes in Kerala was characterized by experiences such as the transition from slave labor to various intermediary stage of wage labor. This happened with the continuous dominance of the caste structure that mediated the process of the formation of a working class, which was a complex phenomenon in itself. The new subjectivity of slave castes that was shaped by the project of colonial modernity contained strands of missionary Christianity, modern education, and the ideas and practices of social reform. The agency of slave castes in the context of the new institutional sites under colonialism negotiated for new social space" (26). As far as political economy is concerned, such a space is deeply intertwined through the categories of caste, religion, and class. On the one hand you have Ezhavas (low-castes) becoming landholders, while Pulayas (low-castes) remaining wage-laborers, or more so as the unorganized. For in the early 20th century they had not consolidated into the powerful unions that were formed after Travancore became part of India in 1956. Instead, during this period Pulayas could at best assert their low-caste Christian identity. There too there were problems of caste hierarchy. The public situation of  caste-slaves returns us to the incongruence of private property as a social system.

13.) Besky, Sarah. 2014. The Darjeeling Distinction: Labor and Justice on Fair Trade Tea Plantations in India. Berkeley: University of California Press. 
Besky provides a succinct history of how tea came to be cultivated in India and its larger geopolitics between Britain and China (5-6). Besky however asks a different question from what I am attempting, she asks the following: how does the plantation continue to reinvent itself through the market? She is far more invested in the moral economy of tea as a commodity, while I concentrate on the reproduction of the plantation as historically rooted process of region formation. The circulation of tea however is important for me for it explicates the distance between production (region-formation) and consumption (production of preference creating spaces).

15.) Mateer, Samuel. 1991. Native Life in Travancore. Madras: Asian Educational Services. 
Prior to forest land being usurped for tea cultivation, nomadic hill tribes inhabited the area. They practiced a form of slash-and-burn cultivation within the confines of the forest. They had their own rituals for cultivation as well as marriage-- an idiosyncratic way of life (68). Mateer who worked as a colonial civil servant who also adjudicated greviances on plantations, gives an intimate description of Kanikars. Etymologically, kanikaran refers to "hereditary proprietor of land." What could such a sense of land have meant? Mateer does not ask such questions, he documents the kinship customs, relationship with their cheiftan, agricultural practices, and interactions with planters as the latter encroahced their land. I am curious if the Kanikars ever appealed the law when their land was grabbed from them.

16.) Ravi Raman, Global Capital and Peripheral Labour: The history and political economy of plantation workers in India. Chapter 3 entitled  "Periphery in the Making" gives a detailed description of "colonial plantations as incorporation" within a global capitalist network. Such an incorporation is described as development of property rights, appropriation of land, cultivation of several cash crops, and lowered fiscal strain, along with the construction of related infrastructure. It also goes on to describe a looming ecological crisis of dropping water table levels, drying up of rivers, floods during the monsoon. All of this however is articulated as pillage of the perhiphery, as opposed to the core. Such framework arises when one is focused more on the transformation of raw material into finished commodity. However, the detailed description of ecological and social shifts that be read also as a fracture narrative of region formation for it includes the buildings of roads, railways, and ports as a means to be connected into the global marketplace. Yet the core is hardly represented within the formation of the periphery. In what ways can we think of the core as represented within the periphery, and the periphery within the core? How do we read the formation of a region as a global process without merely replicating market structures such as commodity prices and risk forecasts? One way to think about this question would be introduce the transportation of tea where a ciruclating body of ships would neither be periphrey, nor core.

17.) Jason W. Moore. Capitalism in the Web of Life: Ecology and the Accumulation of Capital. London: Verso, 2015. There are a couple of ideas---cheap labor, and cheap food---which relate to the expansion of capitalism in the 18th century beyond the British core into America and the rest of the world. Moore develops a theory which gives ecology, or the nature that is outside, an agency to affect and co-constitute human activity of producing space: Moore often uses the phrase capitalism-in-nature, and nature-in-capitalism, to suggest a double internality between capitalism and nature. Though this is a theoretically innovative move, the harder question is, if we have been relying on human agency to effect historical change, how do we develop a sense of historical change which is grounded in a double internality? Moore challenges us to reconcieve the way we look for historical change as directed by human work alone. Moore's articulation of work/energy as a way to move away from thinking of labor productivity and instead focus on how labor is appropriated to make commodities cheaper also speaks to the expansion of the common variety of tea into the South West Coast of India. Tea cultivated in the region was also the cheap variety meant for the masses.




================================
older version
=================================
During the 19th century, especially the latter half, a host of colonial political instruments and actors irrevocably changed the social fabric of the mountainscape of South India. This mountainous region called the Western Ghats saw a rapid increase in the land that was fenced for cultivation. What began as experiments in "gardening" eventually became full blown plantations. From the early 19th to the mid 20th century cash crops were grown in the region. From coffee, to chinchona, to tea, and rubber, all found a place in different cycles growth and plantations re-entrenchment on the picturesque slopes of the Western Ghats.  At the outset I would like to trace the evolution of this process as a historical process  and political action that And within social fabric I include ecological relationships between human and extra-human natures (Moore). Deterritorialization and reterritorialization. 

1.) Robert Brenner. "The Agrarian Roots of European Capitalism." In The Brenner Debate.In this essay social-property-systems are given the utmost agency in explaiining the economic evolution of class formations as a transition from  medieval to early modern England and France. Of particular interest is the onset of the Industrial Revolution in England; by the middle of 17th century and towards the turn of the 18th, Brenner suggests that there existed a substantial middle, and lower class "home-market" in England. Population continued to grow in England in the 18th century; "population continued to shift from agriculture to industry and from rural towards the urban areas, as there was a big growth not only of London, but also of Liverpool, Manchester, and Birmingham. Even so, grain prices ceased to rise. This allowed real wages to increase, and a new golden age for working people...the home market continued to grow...an upward spiral that extended into the Industrial Revolution" (327).

2.) Patricia Seed. Ceremonies of Possession in Europe's Conquest of the New World 1492-1640.: "Affixing the symbols of individual ownership by planting fences and hedges was...referred to by [British] colonists as "improvements." While in popular speech today improvement merely means to make something better, the word first signified fencing in large tracts of previously unenclosed land...the fence symbolized English ownership in a culturally powerful way...In the 17th and 18th centuries improvement also referred to two activities repeatedly carried out on the same land: grazing (domestic animals) and planting" (25)."Thus, when the English referred to their colonies in the New World as plantations, they were referring to themselves metaphorically as taking possession...it was a principle of natural law that "in vacant soyle, hee that taketh possession of it, and bestoweth culture and husbandry upon it, his Right it is [John Cotton, 1630]...planting the garden was an act of taking possession of the New World for England. It was not a law that entitled Englishmen to posses the New World, it was an <i>action</i> which established their rights" (29-31). Planting became an act that was to be understood by all as the beginning of settlement. Such an act was a cultural construct(38). Such a culturally loaded act could only be understood by the English legal code. Q.) how did the above understanding of planting change and influence 19th century legal poltics of claims on land, especially with the EIC?  Quasi-sovereignty and Paramountacy.

3.)Peter Linebaugh and Marcus Rediker. The Many Headed Hydra: Sailors, Slaves, Commoners, and the Hidden History of the Revolutionary Atlantic. Boston: Beacon Press, 2000."Labors of expropriation included the clear-cutting of woods, the draining of marshes, the reclamation of fens, and the hedging of the arable field---in sum, the obliteration of the commoning habitus. Woodlands contained flourishing economies of forest people in England...their destruction was the first step toward agrarian "civilization"...[1640] the "Act for the Limitation of Forests...was the signal for the beginning of widespread destruction of forests." In the year 1649 the Parliamentary Committee for the Preservation of Timber was formed to check the depredations of the "looser and disordered sort of people" who continued to insist upon their common rights in the forests" (43). Linebaugh and Redikar powerfully explicate the question of the commons. A parallel situation is observed in the forests of South West India where animal, plant and human life are displaced simultaneously as the commons. A question that arises here is, how do we write a history which is at once a critique of ecological and human displacement, which at once pays close heed to the transformation of nature-in-space, as well as humans-in-space. Is there a genealogical way of writing a history of the commons by looking at finished commodities but tracing backward from today the histories of displacement that were simulataneously being created as we move through cycles of production and consumption? It is not enough that we write histories of production and consumption, but rather the displacements that undergird such cycles as well. 


4.) A Search for Sovereignty: Law and Geography in European Empires 1400-1900. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2010. "Quasi sovereign states [such as those under paramountacy, as in the case of Travancore in South West Colonial India] came to be  imagined everywhere [within the British Empire in the 19th century] as anamolous legal spaces, where the application of imperial law defied easy categorization and seemed even to require the occasional suspension of law" (227)."The same Foreign Office officials who prided themselves on systematizing legal relatiosn between the native states also developed and refined the notion that paramountacy resided mainly in the prerogative of the imperial power to decide where law ended and politics began. More precisely, the colonial state claimed the power not to decide -- to remain silent on questions that were "beyond the power of language" (260). When it came to bringing hill regions within legal purview (as in the case of land acquired to cultivate tea in Travancore) an extra-legal process whereby "holes and silences" in the legal system were created which came to define what was called  a "territorial enclave" (270). This legal term was at once a geographic marker and a sign which meant that standard legal parameters of governance do not apply. As Benton shows, "territoral enclave" was often used to demarcate a region that was hilly, and at the same time anamolous in that it created "holes" and "silences" within the legal system through is "legal primitiveness". Since such regions did not conform to British legal ideas of autonomy and legitamacy, In dealing with the Bhils, a hill tribe that lived on the border of Baroda (princely state) and Kandesh (a British district), it was suggested that "the introduction of laws and regulations seems likely to lead to...difficulty. The British Government of India are disposed to think that , for a backward community like the Dang Bhils, the strongest and most effective form of control is the personal rule of a British officer untrammeled by anything but executive orders from his own Government" (Benton citing a colonial legal manual, 264). 
5.) Manu Goswami, Producing India:"Lefebvre locates abstract spacet-time in the "capitalist trinity," that is, the production and circulation of land (rent), labor (Wages), and capital (profits) and the generalization of form-determined capitalist sociql relations.." (35). "The mercantilist regime of the East India Company was grounded on the extraction of tribute...In contrast, the post 1857 colonial regime hinged on "occupying space, producing space"...a new colonial state form" (45). "The self-understanding of the colonial state as the supreme landlord, continually reiterated within offical discourse, coexisted with the intensified commodification of space, the extension of the regime of private property, and a phenomenal increase in rural indebtedness in the first half of the nineteenth century...[The colonial state's appropriation of an ultimate right of ownership of land] was rendered socially effective in the enduring practice of "hypothecation," whereby the state reserved a supremem claim to land by selling land deeds at public auction in the event of a failure to pay the cash revenues on time" (55). "In a process that mirrored the acquisition of land for railway construction, a simple gazette notification stating that forest and wasterlands were reserved as "state forests" effectively erased all...customary rights. Because claims on forest and wastelands had to be grounded in legal records of ownership, the vast majority of nonliterate subaltern communities were simply dispossed of their lands" (58). This last line assumes that state-ownership of forest land was an assumed mandate. How would this situation change in the case of a princely state, I can understand this being the case for a Presidency as in the case of Bombay, Madras, or Bengal. However in the case of a smaller princely state where indirect rule was being practiced, how do we trace state-ownership of land.

6.) Seeing Like a State:Non-state-space, history and failure of intensification; rather than failure I am interested in how intensification persists. How does it move across different state-spaces as a form-of-knowledge (mitchell). In terms of its spatial effects, capital intensification cycles in the hinterland either leave us in ruins such a ghostly boom-towns(for agriculture what would be the equivalent?), or allows us to believe in a progressive/developmental future. Need to read the last chapters to understand the political implications of industrialized argicultural knowledge. I feel a lot goes back to the creation of state-space and its knowledge foundations, and also a politics can respond to such spatial and knowledge

7.) Shorelines: Space and Rights in South India. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2009. "[After the revolt of 1857,] the new policy [of Direct Crown rule and noninterference in religious matters of the princely states]" upheld the soverignty of these states, "as a necessary buffer against the rising tide of rebellion against empire. It underwrote the territorial sovereignty of the princes in exchange for their loyalty" (76). Within a decade of this move the colonial state compelled the princes "to assume more responsibility to their subjects amd demonstrate their achievements" through "good governance" (77). This however meant large scale economic development. But the curiosity fact of the matter is that economic development was always articulate in the idiom of a moral improvement as well. "Through the large scale investment of private foreign capital in coffee, tea, and rubber plantations and in coir and coconut oil agroprocessing industries, Travancore was gradually integrated into an international commodity market dominated by European capital. European firms predominated, exerting near total control over commerciala nd financial activity. By the late nineteenth century Travancore econoy was "an essentially export oriented agro-based industrial complex characterized by the overall predominance of foreign capital...In 1865, the Travancore Dewan...granted full ownership rights to peasant cultivators of...government lands. He also allowed the unrestricted transfer of landed property, soon follwed by reforms ensuring tenants of private landlands legal protection and permanent occupancy rights. The commodification of land..."

8.) Munn, Nancy D. 1992. The fame of Gawa: A symbolic study of value transformation in a Massim (Papua New Guinea) society. Durham, NC: Duke Univ. Press.: The question of value formation and circulation at a distance in The Fame of Gawa has parallels with what Mintz calls "intimate interdependencies" along the commodity chain. At the outset, there is the parallel between the kula chain, and the commodity chain as forms of circulation. However, producer and consumer are never within line-of-sight in capitalist exchange, and of course, "value" is articulated in fundamentally different ways in the two systems of exchange just mentioned. Where as Gawans have to "face," "see," and even have  a "memory" of their near and distant food providers (to put it crudely). There is no such memory in capitalist exchange, apart from balance of payment accounts maintained and produced by state-spaces.[Such a sense of "memory" and interdependence is interfaced through the presence of a state-space.]
Mintz uses the word "intimacy" along with interdependence to reflect on the commodity chain. Though seemingly invisible, "intimate interdependence" links the fields of cultivation  (sugar cane fields) to  the space of the diniing table (commoditized sugar). How do we read this material transformation (from sugarcane to sugar) as a circulation and transformation of a sign (as with kula)? Can we think of a semiotic model for the transformative circulation of sugar, or in my case, tea?

9.) Arjun Appadurai. "Introduction: commodities and the politics of value." In The Social Life of Things.:"Commodities represent very complex social forms and distribution of knowledge" (41). Very broadly, these can be classified as production knowledge on the one hand, and consumption knowledge on the other. In the case of tea production, bringing large areas of land under cultivation required technical expertise (however flawed), hence production knowledge. When tea is shipped to London for auctioneering, speculators have a different set of rules and information base on which they operate, hence consumption knowledge. Knowledge at both these poles are influenced by a distance in time, space, and institution. "As commodities travel greater distances [and across institutions]...knowledge about them tends to become partial, contradictory, and differentiated. But such differentiation [and contradiction] may itself...lead to the intensification of demand" (56).The key terms here for the circulation of tea and its value-transformation is institution. I am more interested a long history of how the value-transformation of commodities (tea) influences the use of land, and the meaning of land. [Mintz invokes the connection between "use" of a commodity, and its "meaning" as a semiotic frame for commodity.] The "moral economy" of food, and other commodities, will allow me to think about the commodification of, or extra-economic relationship to land. So, I have tea intensification on the one hand, and on the other, the commodification of land-- can both be thought of as different institutions? I continue to think through space (land) and its value-transformations under a colonial-state-space. Institutions create transformations and value-differentiations.The intenfiication of tea cultivation, and its relatioship to the value-transformaiton of land has to be thought of as a historiacl process which began in the colonial era.

10.) Sweetness and Power: "the strange intimacies of preference formation": that in-between space that connects the histories of production to the histories of what becomes available for consumption; the historical intimacies that form our preferences today; transnationality of our present in everyday objects; (maya jasanoff article, the part about a smaller world. spatio-temporal contraction); summarize notes to intro;  briefly invoke the question of use, repitition, and meaning-->notmalization; how does such a form of repeated use erase a memory of colonial-slavery? in search of another way of making meaning-- here james scott would be useful; how would james scott respond to the habit of repeated consumption and its ability to create meaning; what would nancy munn say?

11.) Paul Erik Baak. Plantation, Production and Political Power: Plantation Development in South West India 1743-1963.: International Tea Prohibition Act
Labor discharge Act; Paramountacy allowed the region to stay clear of labour debates in England; Paramountacy also allowed expansion of settlement without and check and balance;
Property Act
Paramountacy
Isolation, and lateness of labor and political consciousness.
Focus on production;
There's a part of Baak's writing which gives the impression that life on a tea plantation high amongst the clouds was deeply isolating, especially in the later half of the 19th century when tea was being planted as a subsitute for the coffee fields which had withered from pestilence between 1860-1880. This sense of being isolated from the  "plains" develops and transforms in Baak's writing as a  political aloofness of the region from the early 20th century nationalist movement, as well as the labor conscioussness that was rising at the time. In Baak's historical plot, labor conscioussness develops in the 1930s and becomes a political question with the Communist Party of India establishing a strong foothold after 1947.
Baak, as the title of the book suggest, focuses solely on the production side. Consumption, as well as  of where and how tea is transported to different destinationsne has to think about demand (Mintz), and also of cultivating a taste (Bordieu). How do we retell this story from a maritime and hence transnational perspective of how plantations were formed? Through such a process, how do we question the presence of the plantation as a "given" or assumed form of life. Include ships, sailors, hewers of land, coolies; Baak focuses on the struggles of planter's who were midlevel managers without access to land, especially their historical evolution as eventual plantation holders. This would allow us to this about the property-system, and speculate on the conditions of labor more indirectly; Baak describes 1850-1900 as the period of the planter's Raj in south west india, its a period where large tracts of land are acquired by foreign planters (as opposed to native planters); its a period when coffee plantations wither through disease. Tea is planted in the region; describe the political conditions under which "jungle land" was usurped on a large scale; why do we get a picture as though the plantations were insulated from the larger labour and nationalist movement? paramountacy is given a detailed description. Not enough is said on the conditions that created property rights or claium on the land; the plantations a prison, a space from where escape seems unfathomable, or at the risk of being caught all too easily;

12.) P. Sanal Mohan, Modernity of Slavery: Struggles against Caste Inequality in Colonial Kerala: "In precolonial Travancore, land was held as the possession of the state as well as the property of big landlord families and temples. With the Pandarappattom proclamation of 1865, there emerged a middle-stratum peasantry that was drawn mainly from upper castes, including a substantial number of Ezhavas...This new proclamation bestowed ownership rights on the tenants that were qualified as 'heritable salelable and otherwise transferable, subject only to the obligation of paying the land tax assessed to them'...The ownership of land was, in the process, diffused among all castes and groups connected with agriculture...But these changes were to have only marginal effect on the untouchable slave castes of Travancore...The slave castes, particularly the Pulayas, Parayas, and Kuravas, were reduced to agrestic slavery that had a long history in Travancore" (17). My interest is not so much in the conditions of slavery, but rather the attempt at creating tradeable land as private property. The caste question enters the fray for me through the land question. The landless caste slave, rather than caste slave alone is crucial for my purposes. In short, Mohan asserts that capitalist production did not really create new social relationships, but gave the older caste structure a new mold-- that of slavery. If caste-slavery persisted desipte a transition toward capitalist production, in a sense, would this in any way make wage-labor an ineffective sign to mobilize under? I ask because if we think of a developing public sphere in Travancore during the late 19th and early 20th century, several communities were forming public identities by organizing themselves into different political organs that represented them. More than labor, public identities were being created through religious and caste affiliations (Baak). However as with the Syrian Christians, such public identities were able to consolidate land-holdings and even develop themsevles as planters (22).   
"The colonial transformation of slave castes in Kerala was characterized by experiences such as the transition from slave labor to various intermediary stage of wage labor. This happened with the continuous dominance of the caste structure that mediated the process of the formation of a working class, which was a complex phenomenon in itself. The new subjectivity of slave castes that was shaped by the project of colonial modernity contained strands of missionary Christianity, modern education, and the ideas and practices of social reform. The agency of slave castes in the context of the new institutional sites under colonialism negotiated for new social space" (26). As far as political economy is concerned, such a space is deeply intertwined between caste, religion, and class. On the one hand you have Ezhavas (low-castes) becoming land-holders, while Pulayas (low-castes) remaing as wage-laborers, or more so the unorganized. Pulayas were also converted from low-castes to Christianity.

13.)Sarah Besky, The Darjeeling Distinction: Labor and Justice on Fair Trade Tea Plantations in India; While Darjeeling Tea is a luxury item, tea grown in South India is a more popular variety of English Breakfast tea. It is consumed by the masses and was initially exported only to the metropole, but towards the last quarter of the 19th century it was exported to the U.S. and other regions. Rather than the tea-as-commodity alone, I am interested in the link between the circulation of commodity and region-formation. In the sense, I am interested in the long term historical conditions---legal, political, geographical---that allowed the form of the plantation to establish itself on the ranges of the Western Ghats in manner that transformed the ecological and human conditions of that region. I am interested in writing a history of the formation of this region as a process between deterritorialization and reterritorialization through plantation entrenchment and expansion. In this regard Besky provides a succint history of how tea came to be cultivated in India (5-6). Besky however asks a different question: how does the plantation continue to reinvent itself? She is far more interested in the moral economy of the commodity-form, while I concentrate on region formation. The circulation of tea however is important for me for it explicates the distance between production (region-formation) and consumption (production of preference creating spaces).

14.) Griffiths, Percival. The History of the Indian Tea Industry. (London: Weidenfeld and Nicholson, 1967).From the perspective of the tea industry organizations, as well as the colonial state, gives a historical account of the problems of recruitment in labour. Also gives detailed account of Tea propaganda that was under discussion in the 1880s when a consortium of tea planters were trying to re-established tea as a popular drink in America. Such a propaganda parallels the intensification of tea production; Percival describes this period "Tea Mania and Collapse". The labour problems corroborate the implimentation of harsh or extrememly punishing labor laws that were enacted in late 19th century. "Tea Mania"--- a rapid expansion of land under tea cultivation;  "Tea Propaganda"--- expansion of tea market into American; and harsh labor laws form three parallel processes during the late 19th century. If we place our gaze on the operation of the tea companies it becomes easier to think about different scales of operation, where-in we can have a global scale at the level of world market, this happens only once tea auctioneering and hence tea price is consolidated at the global level. Like wise tea companies were also operating at the regional level when they had to negotiate with the dewan of a princely state, who was basically the intermediary between the King and the British officials as part of the indirect rule. At the local level tea companies had to deal with the question of land and labor, where land problems could be anywhere between acquiring more space, or negotiating taxation. However this method would focus far too much on the operations of the tea companies, land and labor only function to establish the prerogatives of the tea industry. What would be far more fulfilling is if land and labor can be instilled with enough agency to form a critique from the perspective of the dispossed. Focussing on caste-slavery with missionary linkages could solve some of this problem, however land again would be left impotent. I say impotent because I am aware that when the communist government comes into place in 1956, one of its rallying cries which allows it to come to power is "land to the tiller." Large-scale land reform was implemented, but I am not sure if plantationa acrege was reduced. If not, then the land question once again is hardly potent against the presence of the tea plantations. Instead another way to re-open the land question could be to focus on pests that created loss of crop. This is because when large acres of land are cultivated with the same crop, it is more susceptible to swarms of pest. Another problem that the tea companies would have to face as markets expanded was the maintenance of a quality of product. This is where technology comes into play, and well as the need to raise money to build a tea processing plant.  

15.) Mateer, Native Life in Travancore. (Madras: Asian Educational Services, 1991). Prior to forest land being usurped for tea cultivation, nomadic hill tribes inhabited the area. They practiced a form of slash-and-burn cultivation within the confines of the forest. They had their own rituals for cultivation as well as marriage-- an idiosyncratic way of life (68). Mateer who worked as a colonial civil servant who also adjudicated greviances on plantations, gives an intimate description of Kanikars. Etymologically, kanikaran refers to "hereditary proprietor of land." What could such a sense of land have meant? Mateer does not ask such questions, he documents the kinship customs, relationship with their cheiftan, agricultural practices, and interactions with planters as the latter encroahced their land. I am curious if the Kanikars ever appealed the law when their land was grabbed from them. 

16.) Ravi Raman, Global Capital and Peripheral Labour: The history and political economy of plantation workers in India. Chapter 3 entitled  "Periphery in the Making" gives a detailed description of "colonial plantations as incorporation" within a global capitalist network. Such an incorporation is described as development of property rights, appropriation of land, cultivation of several cash crops, and lowered fiscal strain, along with the construction of related infrastructure. It also goes on to describe a looming ecological crisis of dropping water table levels, drying up of rivers, floods during the monsoon. All of this however is articulated as pillage of the perhiphery, as opposed to the core. Such framework arises when one is focused more on the transformation of raw material into finished commodity. However, the detailed description of ecological and social shifts that be read also as a fracture narrative of region formation for it includes the buildings of roads, railways, and ports as a means to be connected into the global marketplace. Yet the core is hardly represented within the formation of the periphery. In what ways can we think of the core as represented within the periphery, and the periphery within the core? How do we read the formation of a region as a global process without merely replicating market structures such as commodity prices and risk forecasts? One way to think about this question would be introduce the transportation of tea where a ciruclating body of ships would neither be periphrey, nor core. 

17.) Jason W. Moore. Capitalism in the Web of Life: Ecology and the Accumulation of Capital. London: Verso, 2015. There are a couple of ideas---cheap labor, and cheap food---which relate to the expansion of capitalism in the 18th century beyond the British core into America and the rest of the world. Moore develops a theory which gives ecology, or the nature that is outside, an agency to affect and co-constitute human activity of producing space: Moore often uses the phrase capitalism-in-nature, and nature-in-capitalism, to suggest a double internality between capitalism and nature. Though this is a theoretically innovative move, the harder question is, if we have been relying on human agency to effect historical change, how do we develop a sense of historical change which is grounded in a double internality? Moore challenges us to reconcieve the way we look for historical change as directed by human work alone. Moore's articulation of work/energy as a way to move away from thinking of labor productivity and instead focus on how labor is appropriated to make commodities cheaper also speaks to the expansion of the common variety of tea into the South West Coast of India. Tea cultivated in the region was also the cheap variety meant for the masses. 



