
Tea, Colonial-State-Space, and Slavery

Finance Capital, The Commons, and the Erasure of Slavery from PuMemory

Plantation: A persistence of form


Nature-within(memory of slveryP, Capitalism, and Nature-without


if we take the presence of plantations, that have persisted for the past 200 years in south asia, how has the accumulation of land under plantation and its persistence fostered an erasure of the memory of slavery?-- (capital formation and normative shifts)

how did plantation form of production (monocrop--enlargment of scale) change the way we understand the land question as an ecological question?



How are capitalistic spatial transformations implicated in the reconstitution of a normative sensibility, especially that between land and a subjectivity towards it. Can such a subjectivity be conscious of the transfomration it undergoes as becomes reconstituted under a capitalisitc space-time?  What do i mean by "capitalistic"? How do i think of capitalistic spatial transfomration? How do I think of normative subjectivity? How does it intend towards "land?" Why use the term "land" rather than space.
A fundamental problem here is that when we think about the market there is hardly space for ethics, or subjectivity to intervene. If the above is the question, how do we think about Tea cultivation as an entry point into this question?

the persistence of plantation form as a historical failure on cultural (slavery), and ecologically (land-- monocrop expansion)

Reading Pomeranz, I realize that I do not want to use a core-periphery model. I also realize that if I want to work on region formation, how do I define the region that I am interested in and at the same time be interested in the normative? Perhaps I have to let go of the normative unless I include the people or community i would like to study.


Munn, Nancy D. 1992. The fame of Gawa: A symbolic study of value transformation in a Massim (Papua New Guinea) society. Durham, NC: Duke Univ. Press.

Subramanian, Ajantha. 2009. Shorelines: Space and Rights in South India. Stanford: Stanford University Press.

Seeing Like a State

Capitalism in the Web of Life

Producing India

Patricia Seed,

Robert Brenner

Neil Brenner

Timothy Mitchell






