Paul Erik Baak. Plantation Production and Political Power
International Tea Prohibition Act
Labor discharge Act; Paramountacy allowed the region to stay clear of labour debates in England; Paramountacy also allowed expansion of settlement without and check and balance;
Property Act
Paramountacy
Isolation, and lateness of labor and political consciousness. 
Focus on production

There's a part of Baak's writing which gives the impression that life on a tea plantation high amongst the clouds was deeply isolating, especially in the later half of the 19th century when tea was being planted as a subsitute for the coffee fields which had withered from pestilence between 1860-1880. This sense of being isolated from the  "plains" develops and transforms in Baak's writing as a  political aloofness of the region from the early 20th century nationalist movement, as well as the labor conscioussness that was rising at the time. In Baak's historical plot, labor conscioussness develops in the 1930s and becomes a political question with the Communist Party of India establishing a strong foothold after 1947.
Baak, as the title of the book suggest, focuses solely on the production side. Consumption, as well as  of where and how tea is transported to different destinationsne has to think about demand (Mintz), and also of cultivating a taste (Bordieu). How do we retell this story from a maritime and hence transnational perspective of how plantations were formed? Through such a process, how do we question the presence of the plantation as a "given" or assumed form of life. Include ships, sailors, hewers of land, coolies; Baak focuses on the struggles of planter's who were midlevel managers without access to land, especially their historical evolution as eventual plantation holders. This would allow us to this about the property-system, and speculate on the conditions of labor more indirectly; Baak describes 1850-1900 as the period of the planter's Raj in south west india, its a period where large tracts of land are acquired by foreign planters (as opposed to native planters); its a period when coffee plantations wither through disease. Tea is planted in the region; describe the political conditions under which "jungle land" was usurped on a large scale; why do we get a picture as though the plantations were insulated from the larger labour and nationalist movement? paramountacy is given a detailed description. Not enough is said on the conditions that created property rights or claium on the land; the plantations a prison, a space from where escape seems unfathomable, or at the risk of being caught all too easily; 

P. Sanal Mohan, Modernity of Slavery;  
