The painting, that is, Altdorfer's Alexanderschlacht,in Koselleck's essay is a symbol and narrative tool  allows us as readers to move intuitively through the outlines that form what Koselleck calls the plane of prophecy, its transformation into the plane of prognosis and then its eventual transition to the present, or the "now," or the plane of accelerated time. Koselleck historicizes the present both through image and narrative, but most pertinent to my concern here, also through a tradition. By tradition I mean a continuity in conceptual lexicon which is able to chart historical change in the experience of time and space up to the current moment. In other words, I read Koselleck as posing the question of tradition when he at the very end of his essay, once again invokes the Alexanderschlact. It is 1800, and now the Alexanderschlact is  hung in Napoleon's bathroom in Saint Cloud. Koselleck asks, "Did Napoleon sense the manner in which the history of the Occident was present in this painting?" Koselleck answers it in the speculative affirmative and goes on to invoke the role of a specific Christian tradition even in the aftermath of the French Revolution which gives us some our present day liberal lexicon. Koselleck writes, "It is possible. Napoleon saw himself as a parallel to the great Alexander, and more. The power of tradition was so strong that the long-lost, salvational-historical task of the Holy Roman Empire shimmered through the supposedly new beginning of the [French Revolution]. Napoleon who had definitively destroyed the Holy Roman Empire, afterward married the daughter of the last emperor" (20) just as Alexander had married Darius' daughter aftering defeating the Persians. Napoleon later repented this act after his son from the marriage outsted him his seat of power. Koselleck suggests that, though premeditated, Napoleon's marriage to the daughter of the last emperor of the Holy Roman Empire was perhaps no failure on Napoleon's part for he was continuing an older tradition in the line of Alexander. Koselleck reads the overthrow of Napoelon by his own son, as a reinvocation of a past, a tradition which is reawakened in a strange way back into the historical process.
  When Koselleck asks "Did Napoleon sense the manner in which the history of the Occident was present in [the Alexanderschlact]?" As a reader who is far too aware of his own historical tradition as being once referred to disparaingly as the Orient vis-a-vis the Occident, this question that Koselleck poses invokes the following question. If we believe that there is a historical difference in the way modernity arives in the colony and hence also configures our present, in what way is our space of expectation different from the one that Koselleck describes as the plane of accelerated time? I must qualify this question by saying that my historical tradition has often been described as an intellectual tradition which does not have a history, or rather has a cylical form of time. Such cyclicality, when read as unthought repitition by colonial orientalists became a premise to discredit and disqualify it from posessing a sense of history, and this of course, in the strict linear and statist sense. Another reason for Indic intellectual tradition to not have history, is the fact that there are no treatises, or sastras, which reflect on the nature of history or historical processes. If we read Koselleck close enough, these assertions rather having truth value attached to them, seem to require a historicization which takes into account their semantic and political coordinates, but the key question there would be, from which point of vantage would this process be historicized? Given the colonial interjection, reading Koselleck forces us to think in what way are we historical prognosticators ourselves. Not in the sense that Robiespierre wanted us to believe that we are agents in search of our own destiny, but rather as the moderators of the historical-philosophical design, for as Koselleck reminds us, "It has been possible since Hegel's time to convey into historical reality fictions such as the thousand-year Reich or the classless society. This fixation on an end-state by participating actors, robbing them of their judgement. There is a need therefore for historical prognostication that goes beyond the rational prognoses of politicians and as the legitimate offspring of historical philosophy, can moderate the historical-philosophica design" (18). Koselleck says this in the context of a futureless future where the space of expectation has shrunk so dramatically by the late 18th century as compared to a world which awaited the realization of the End. Such a contraction of expectations of the end leaves actors in a state a finite "not yet" or abeyance, and hence a future without the anxiety of the End, instead temporally unbound fictions such as a thousand-year Riech or a classless society can structure a future, for the end is no longer bound by an ecclestical order or absolutist in the monarchical sense.
Rather than focusing on an end-state, what is compelling is the beginning that Koselleck marks at the turn of the 16th century with the Reformation. The three hundred years between then and the French Revolution become historical junctures wh <describe the system here> include the moral and the politcal.



The link between timespace (timespace--space of expectation) and politics==the moral and the political;

a frame to think about the way the amorphous spheres of the moral and the political intersect, dissociate and encircle each other;

he also gives us the elements that configure the modern timespace of the Occident;

the problem of temporal distance, when seen the other way round, copresence, and present day difference.

<frame the whole thing as tradition>
