<!--note: society: gesellschaft vs samaj(Tagore, Chatterjee);
Tradition, Custom, Law and Property;
 Eric Hobswam The Invention of Tradition-->


<footnote>I use the word us to speak to those who see a colonial past in the present.</footnote>

Reconceiving hermeneutical experience as an interplay between tradition and interpretation, Hans-Georg Gadamer writes, "The[hermeneutic] circle...is not formal in nature, it is neither subjective nor objective, but describes understanding as the interplay of the movement of tradition and the movement of the interpreter. The anticipation of meaning that governs our understanding of a text is not an act of subjectivity, but proceeds from the commonality that binds us to tradition. But this is condtained in our relation to tradition, in the constant process of education. Tradition is not simply a precondition into which we come, but we produce it ourselves, inasmuch as we understand, participate in the evolution of tradition and hence further determine it ourselves." (Truth and Method, 261). Gadamer effortlessly connects an understanding of a text with an immersion in tradition which is cultivated through a continuous process of educating oneself. This connection between tradition and education is hardly straightforward, neither is it easy to accept when one remembers the project of overhauling the university system in Colonial India, a project initiated by the British administration for different political ends. As far as the academy is concerned, our inability to invoke a tradition of normative thought and claim making without speaking of an absence, an epistemic break, or rupture between the pre-modern and the modern is a political end of the British instated education that we continue to be burdened by. To speak of colonial education alone does not go far enough, for even the conceptual language we use to describe our experience and in the process produce it, is often governed by an ambivalence, a movement between the modern and the pre-modern. Such a movement can be generative in explaining a shift in the way we understand and respond to art, literature, and alternate practices of science, to take a few discursive examples. Such an ambivalance between the pre-modern and the modern is not modernist, for modernity does not arrive in the colony through an organic transformation. Such an amibvalnce is a scar on our skin. We become aware of this ambivalence when we recognize that colonial power shifted the way we world our world. At the level of discourse, it has shifted the way we cognize scientific knowledge, or the way we judge what ought to be exemplary in literature. Such a cognitive shift was induced by a falsificatory logic of colonial power (Kaviraj, "The Sudden Death of Sanskrit" 120). The power to falsify other ways of organizing social life was an imperative that the colonial administration undertook, but in the process also introduced modern techniques and discourses of organizing social life. Political economy is a discipline which stood at the forefront of this process. As a backward gaze from the contemporary to the moment where political economy arises in Colonial India, how do we conceive of a tradition when we engage with political economy as a discursive field? To counter and respond to Gadamer's concern through a colonial filter: can tradition be a ontological basis for an intellectual understanding of political economy? Can we move from the methodological to the ontological through tradition? Can tradition structure understanding when political economy as discourse and a set of institutions is a source of newness in Colonial India? How does colonially instituted social difference construe economic relationships in the colony?

Gadamer invokes tradition to give hermeneutical experience---or the act of reading---a historicity: to convince us that the work of interpretation must be historically grounded, Gadamer relies on a tradition of authors who thought deeply about aesthetics, hermeneutics and historical experience. Political economy with its concern with the circulation of value, and the ability of the laboring activity to transform social relationships, is hardly Gadamer's domain. Yet hermeneutics and political economy intersect when we see these intellectual activities as form of reading that seeks to give structure, either to the act of reading as with Gadamer, or to "the social" as with political economy. Reading as hermeneutics or the activity of political economy opens itself to historicity, where a  diachronic relationship between the contemporary, and the past, is established in an attempt to transform their respective objects of analysis. While hermenuetics in the Gadamerian sense is reflexive, giving us a structure for the act of understanding and its historicity, political economy opens us to the social as an object of study, and the latter's historical complexities with the question of power. While Gadamer stresses the power of interpretation and reading, power in political economy, for us, has to begin with another reading of the colonial moment. If we take political economy as a discourse and an instrument of colonial control which reconfigured the social, at the heart of this  reconfiguration is the power weilded by a colonial administration to mark social difference, and concieve it as a variable that can be represented for an administrative apparatus to control and govern. If the social, or the way we conceive of society (gemeinschaft) is governed by a language which has been imposed or that comes from elsewhere, how do we enunciate a tradition of social thought when 19th century European political economy remains silent on the question of colonialism? There is a play of absence and presence when we say that a modern configuration of the social as an object of study has its origins in 19th century British India: 1.) that the colonial administration constructed a particular configuration of the social (presence), and 2.) the search for a tradition that reflected on this change and sought to articulate its incongruencies in a language of its own (a possible absence). This play of absence and presence concerns the present, or the "now" from where I speak, however it does not get to the heart of my question, which is the meaning of the "politico-economic" when we think of political economy as having a colonial past. The work of the "-economic" in Colonial India is unclear: if we think of the colonial adminstration's reconfiguration of the social as a political project, then, <there are three possibilties for the evolution of modern economic relationship 1.)corollary to british admin's engineering 2.)abstract vernacular languge 3.) social difference becomes entwined with how abstract processes work> does the establishment of modern economic relationships during the course of the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Colonial India evolve as a corollary to this political end? How does the meaning of the "-economic" in political economy change when we introduce the social as a colonially constructed object?

As a discipline that continues to chart its intellectual history through a tradition of European authors, what are the limits to modern political economy as a field of discourse when it attempts to capture social life in the non-west? Every discipline draws a boundary beyond which it curtails its desire to understand, uncover, and eventually enchant or disenchant depending on the worldview of the interpreter. Likewise, Andrew sartori in his essay "Global Intellectual History and the History of Political Economy" writes, "political economy must be understood as a discourse whose intellectual history has been constitutively bound to the history of the modern emergence of "the social" as a realm of objective interdependence grounded in the mediating role of labor." (114). The social that was once the intellectual space created for the colony by colonial political economy, is now taken to be the ground from where modernity continues its progress, but perhaps with a difference. With such a program, intellectual history can no longer limit itself to the West. But can it forget the scar of colonial dominance? In a Marxian reading of political economy Sartori underscores the undeniable influence of the laboring activity as structuring the social. Citing Herbert Marcuse, Sartori asserts that economic relationships between men form an existential condition in capitalisitic society, and such interdependence between men can be understood as objective. However to capture such economic objectivity, Sartori stiches the language of liberal political theory to formulate the way in which such objective interdependence can be based on subject forming ideas such as individuality, freedom, and equality (115). To further clarify what he means by objective interdependence between subjective agents, Sartori limits political economy to the study of real abstractions. Such abstractions for Sartori relate to social practices (in capitalistic society) which are in themselves abstract. I read such an articulation of abstract social practice as pointing to the circulation of value, and the conversion of labor into commodity as a transformation into use-value. I also read the laboring activity in Sartori's model of the social as creating objective dependencies bound to the transformation of value, time, and space. Sartori does not invoke time and space, but gives us a labor theory of value which is interpreted through liberal political ideas of freedom, equality and individuality. <In other words, in the absence of a tradition of political theory fr liberal poltical theory becomes a conceptual language to glue the political with the economic, and continue with modernity>

Connecting the conceptual language of liberal political thought to objective economic dependenices through an emphasis on labor as an activity which transforms and ciruclates value, Sartori renders a modernist meaning to the "politico-economic" in political economy. Sartori asserts that such a subject oriented political theory does not have to be commensurable to objective (capitalistic) interdependence described above. Instead it leaves open the possibility for other real abstractions "which have little to do with political economy" to refract their own ways of grappling with capitalistic social practices (117). Real abstractions refer to any form of discursive abstraction used to mark and articulate economic interdependence. Sartori attempts to broaden the scope of the history of political-economic abstractions, and even include the non-west into the field of intellectual history. Refering to non-western abstractions, Sartori writes, "some of these discourses, are at first glance, much further away from political economy than liberal political theory is, as, for example in the neo-Vedantism of later nineteenth-and twentieth-century Bengal, which transformed...a philosophical language elaborated long before the advent of capitalist society into a means for conceptualizing the role of labor in constituting labor relations." (ibid). Through such a move, a non-western discourse (or what I would like to call tradition) comes to represent a newness that capitalistic entrenchment introduced in the colony. When Vedantic philosophical thought is transformed to represent labor relations in Colonial Bengal, it becomes a foil through which the development of labor relations can be enunciated. While I cannot go into the details of neo-Vedantic representation of labor in the space provide here, it seems to me that such a mapping of non-western abstraction (tradition) onto capitalistic social relationship is a step towards transforming an other-worldly conceptual language into a political lexicon. How do we interpret this transformation? Is it semantic or is it syntactic and representational? Do we continue to be within a simulacrum of meaning, or can we say that this newness in the way labor relation is articulated correlates with the invention of the social?
 
Recognizing the newness of "the social" in the colony through the presence of capitalisitc processes that were introduced there and giving these abstract processes a non-western philosophical language (tradition) broadens the scope of political-economic abstractions into the non-west. In Sartori's reading of the semantics of political-economic abstractions, the question of tradition as articulated by Gadamer arises as a question of perpetuating modernity into the future by encompassing the non-western discourse within its fold. However, such a reading cannot forget and has to respond to the violent use of political economic concepts to engineer a rupture by permanently creating within Colonial India the question of social difference. Sartori is relatively silent on the manufacuture and proliferation of social difference in Colonial India. The closest he comes to acknowledging this is when he speculates on the possibility that political-economic concepts begin to exceed the question of epistemic and institutional violence (123). Rather than giving credence to epistemic violence, Sartori seems to be invested in normative claim making as a way of writing the conceptual history of political-economic abstractions that chart an alternate history of the modern. In its wake such an endeavor relegates the colonial production of social difference as a question which has to be exceeded. If such an endeavour seeks to write an alternate and all encompassing history of the modern, what would be an alternate time-space from where such a semantic history begins? Can the time-space of the modern accomodate alternate conceptions of political-economic abstractions? If so, then are we reworking the historical semantics of the modern to align the non-west into the time-space of modernity? Again, is such a move to "include" semantic, or syntactic?

I would like to speculate that such a process would also have to re-work modern time-space as we know it, especially since non-western abstractions (tradition) do not always adhere to the singularity of history. If non-western abstractions do not cohere with the singularity of history, how will modern time-space be reconfigured by a semantic expansion of political-economic abstraction that includes non-western schemas? Of course, non-western abstractions can be forced to adhere to a modern space-time, then would we be describing semantic change? In order to ascribe semantic change we would have to acknowledge both the force of modernity as well as the presence of colonial social difference for they are deeply intertwined. We have to recognize that modernity has always demarcated its outermost boundary through a difference with the non-west, and each retelling of modernity has performed this act of difference. Timothy Mitchell in his essay, "The Stage of Modernity", asserts that social difference begins with the spatialization of time, the creation of a contemporaneous geographical body (26). Let me use an example to explain what I mean by spatialization of time: when certain people all over the globe sychronize their lives to a universal measure of time, the globe becomes a universal space that is governed by a singularity of time. Space and time become abstract and homogenous through standardization. Likewise, now imagine modernity as the measure and standard for writing history. As with all forms of standardization, modernity too defines itself through difference or that which it is not. If non-western abstractions (traditions) were a sign of this difference with the modern, there has to be a theory of intellectual or historical change which can explain an  inversion of this practice, and inclusion within the fold of modernity without ascribing agency to modernity itself. Sartori does not provide such an explaination in his essay. Untill we establish how non-western abstractions (traditions),  rather than providing subsitutes for a language of political economy in the colony, establishes a semantic expansion of the history of political economy, the difference in social space of the non-West will continue to question the on-going spatialization of time. When we focus on political-economic processes in the colony, no longer can social space be a site of appearance, but rather a site for real difference. The history of modernity must explore "the displacement opened up by the [difference in social] space of the non-West." (27).



















