Mitchell: introduces the question of colonial knowledge, or colonialism, but without being able to think beyond historicity of linearity or the "now"; mitchell seems far more concenred with the operations of the state and colonialism;
sartori: has a history of marx to figure political economy as a question, but cannot sufficiently introduced the question of colonialism within political economy; sartori far more interested in the movement of capital and tracing its form of economic relationship as given by Marx; 	Marx and colonialism? 
both sartor and mitchell refer to marx;
me: historicity, "-economic", political economy, colonialism:  given colonialism, how do i think of economic relationships between people? how do we think of the erasure of the political (identity) towards purely economic relationship?   

Even the present from where we speak, the "now", in all its heterogeneity, is bound within a narrative of linear time that was  With this in mind reconfiguration in mind, 

##A reading which cannot begin with a pat disregard for the conceptual vocabulary that liberalism provides... What is the object of study for political economy? What is the object of study for the economy? How do they differ? How do they concieve of history? Historical movement suggest that the economy is being reconstituted. The erasure of the normative.

##Can we connect the question of interpretation (gadamer) with knowledge (mitchell) and "political" economy: Mitchell would connect economy with knowledge; but what is the political need to assert subejctivity, and normativity, when is has no bargaining power as far as development, technological and infrastructural projects have the power to rearrange the way we live? Subjectivity, race, and cultural hegemony seem to be ineffective categories. But unless one tries to resist, dissent there will not be another way; normativity, political economy, economy (separates the political from the economic) thus creating a fragmented intellectual schema;
